Pollen robotics/grabette (#3471)
huggingface/blog: grabette.md

---
title: "Grabette: an open system to record robot-manipulation data"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/grabette/thumbnail_grabette.png
authors:
- user: SteveNguyen
- user: chouziel
- user: glannuzel
- user: simheo
- user: Jeremy-Pollen

> - user: etienne-pollen

Reviewer: You can add `org: pollen-robotics` to each user so a nice org logo is displayed below their names.

---

> # Grabette: an open system to record robot-manipulation data. <br> And build a shared dataset, together.

Reviewer: I'd keep the first sentence as the title (same as in the metadata yaml), remove the `<br>` and display the second part in italics or something.

*Record your own manipulation tasks in minutes with a handheld gripper, turn them into robot-ready datasets automatically, and help grow an open, collaborative dataset for robot learning.*

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## The bottleneck isn’t the model. It’s the data.

Robot learning has a supply problem. We have capable policy architectures (transformer-based VLAs, diffusion and flow-matching policies, and even world models) and the GPUs to train them. What we lack is large, diverse, real-world manipulation data.

Teleoperating a robot to collect it is slow and expensive: every hour of data costs an hour of human time and a robot. That doesn't scale to the millions of demonstrations modern policies need.

> But **you don't need a robot to collect robot data.** Just a human hand, a gripper, a camera, and a way to recover the 6-DoF trajectory of what the hand did. Capture the demonstration and you have data a robot can learn from.

Reviewer: This solves the robot part, but not the "every hour of data costs an hour of human time", right? Perhaps we can be upfront about it? Or anticipate that this unblocks community contributions?

That's what we're releasing today: Grabette, an open, low-cost system for recording manipulation data. Pick it up, record a task with your own hand, and get back a clean, robot-ready dataset. No robot, no lab, no teleop rig.

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/grabette.gif" alt="put_on_grabettes" width="600">
</div>

> And that's the bigger goal: if recording a demonstration is as easy as shooting a video, anyone can contribute. We want Grabette to seed a **large, open, collaborative manipulation dataset**. One no single lab could ever build alone.

Reviewer: 🔥

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/cup.gif" alt="open_cabinet" width="600">
</div>

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Standing on the shoulders of UMI

> Grabette is directly inspired by the **Universal Manipulation Interface** (UMI) from Stanford: a handheld gripper with a fisheye camera that records demonstrations "in the wild", recovers camera trajectories with SLAM, and trains visuomotor policies from them.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to add a link?

UMI proved the recipe works. Other (closed source) devices exists like Agibot's MEgo gripper, Genrobot's DAS gripper and Sunday Robotics skill capture glove.
Our goal was to make it effortless to use, to get the barrier from "I have a task" to "I have a trained model" as low as possible.

Grabette is built into the modern open ecosystem: LeRobot for datasets, the Hugging Face Hub for sharing, and a processing pipeline you run **from your browser** with nothing to install. Grabette is something anyone can build on a workbench, use in the field, and contribute data from.

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Meet Grabette

> For months we have been developing Grabette. We are now feeling that it had become usable enough to share!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have been developing Grabette months, and we are excited to share it now!
```

Grabette is a **handheld gripper** instrumented with everything needed to reconstruct a manipulation demonstration.

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/grabette_label_big.png" alt="grabette_label" width="600">
</div>

It carries **two cameras, each with a distinct job.** Splitting the two roles is deliberate: the cheap wide fisheye gives the policy the context-rich, wrist-camera-style view it needs, while the RGBD camera does the heavy lifting of robust 6-DoF tracking.

> And while Grabette records data during tasks performed by a user, it relies on its robotic counterpart to execute the movements it has learned after training. So, meet **Gripette** the robotic arm end-effector twin of Grabette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And while Grabette records data during tasks performed by a user, it relies on its robotic counterpart to execute the movements it has learned after training. So, meet **Gripette**, the robotic arm end-effector twin of Grabette.
```

The family shares the same hardware DNA:
- **Grabette,** the handheld demonstration device (camera + IMU + gripper, BOM cost ~490€)
- **Gripette,** the motorized gripper (camera + two servomotors, BOM cost ~120€) that closes the loop on a real or simulated robot arm

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/grabette_gripette.png" alt="Grabette and Gripette" width="600">
  <p><em>Grabette hand held recording device (left) and Gripette robot gripper (right)</em></p>
</div>

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Built for everyone

**Everything is open source**

[Go check the repository!](https://github.com/pollen-robotics/grabette)

- **Hardware**: CAD and production files for Grabette and Gripette
- **Capture service**: the on-device Raspberry Pi software
- **Processing pipeline**: run locally, or online via our Hugging Face Space
- **Example downstream stack**: stock LeRobot training + the OpenArm evaluation, as a reference

> **Components.** Standards sensors you can buy, no closed pipeline, no fork lock-in . A Raspberry Pi, a standard Pi camera, an off-the-shelf OAK-D depth camera, magnetic encoders. The whole point is that anyone can build one from parts you can just order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Components.** Standard sensors you can buy, no closed pipeline, no fork lock-in. A Raspberry Pi, a standard Pi camera, an off-the-shelf OAK-D depth camera, magnetic encoders. The whole point is that anyone can build one from parts you can just order.
```

> **Robot-agnostic by design.** Nothing in the capture or the data format assumes a particular arm. Demonstrations are stored as camera-local 6-DoF cartesian pose plus gripper state, the output is a standard LeRobot dataset on the Hugging Face Hub, so the same data can drive different robots and different learning methods. You will still need the matching Gripette gripper on your arm though.

Reviewer: Perhaps we can link to previous communications such as https://huggingface.co/blog/lerobot-datasets or others.

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## From your hand to a dataset, in two steps

> The heart of this release is a recording system built so that going from “I want to demonstrate a task” to “I have a training-ready dataset” is fast and requires no expertise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release allows anyone to go from "I want to demonstrate a task" to "I have a training-ready dataset" quickly and without prior expertise.
```

### 1. Record

<p align="center">
  <img alt="web_processing" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/start_session.gif" align="left" width="48%">
  <img alt="record_coffee" src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/record_coffee_convert_small.gif" align="right" width="50%">
</p>

<br clear="both"/>

### 2. Process, directly in your browser

> ![browser-post-process](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/Browser_postprocess_small2.gif)

Reviewer: Text is a bit blurry here, perhaps we can export at a larger size. Would it make sense to also embed the space, or not really?

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## How It Works under the hood

### The process involves two different steps:

> #### 1. Recording the episode

Reviewer: unsure about displaying several headings one after the other, but your call of course.

Press the button, and data from the observation camera, the tracking camera (color, depth, and IMU), and the gripper’s encoder joint values are recorded simultaneously, using a single shared clock to ensure proper synchronization. Press the button again to stop the episode, and the data is saved locally on the Raspberry Pi.

#### 2. Post-processing

Open the Grabette dashboard in your browser. Select the episodes you want to add to the dataset, and with one click, post-processing begins.

- The episodes are uploaded to the HF Hub
- The grabette-slam space performs SLAM using RTAB-MAP library and verifies that the trajectory is correct (with no jumps or loss of tracking)
- The episodes are converted to LeRobot format
- A new dataset is uploaded to your space, where you can view the data for each episode using the Le Robot visualizer

Everything is now ready to start training!

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## What can you do with the data? Here’s one example.

A dataset is only interesting if it trains something. So, to show the loop end-to-end, we ship a **complete example.** But to be clear, this is *an* example of what is enables, not the product: the release is the recording system. Your Grabette data works with any method that consumes LeRobot datasets.

Our example takes 200 recorded demonstrations such as :

<div align="center">

>   <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/recorded_episode.gif" alt="Grasp a cup episodes" width="40%">

Reviewer: some of the gifs seem a bit small, but not sure if there's anything we can do about it

  <p><em>Dataset available on this <a href="https://huggingface.co/datasets/chouziel/dataset-cup-0107" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">HF Dataset</a></em></p>
</div>

and:

> - **Trains a policy** with stack **LeRobot** — a Diffusion Policy (ResNet18 + SpatialSoftmax encoder, DDIM scheduler, 6-D rotation actions) that fits on a single consumer GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Trains a policy** with the **LeRobot** stack — a Diffusion Policy (ResNet18 + SpatialSoftmax encoder, DDIM scheduler, 6-D rotation actions) that fits on a single consumer GPU.
```

- **Evaluates it** on a OpenArm 7-DoF arm with the Gripette gripper, driven over a gRPC API, with this result :

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/openarm_model.gif" alt="Grasp a cup on robot" width="40%">
  <p><em>Policy available on this <a href="https://huggingface.co/SteveNguyen/pick_cup_0107_smooth-best" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">HF Model</a></em></p>
</div>

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/sugar1.gif" alt="" style="width: 100%; height: 100%; object-fit: cover; border-radius: 6px;">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/sugar2.gif" alt="" style="width: 100%; height: 100%; object-fit: cover; border-radius: 6px;">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/spoon.gif" alt="" style="width: 100%; height: 100%; object-fit: cover; border-radius: 6px;">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/sponge.gif" alt="" style="width: 100%; height: 100%; object-fit: cover; border-radius: 6px;">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/screws.gif" alt="" style="width: 100%; height: 100%; object-fit: cover; border-radius: 6px;">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/grabette/screwdiver.gif" alt="" style="width: 100%; height: 100%; object-fit: cover; border-radius: 6px;">
</div>

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
